[docs]Docs/Blog Frontmatter Documentation (#22604)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/contributing/docs-and-blog-components.md

You can read more about writing in Markdown in the [Markdown syntax guide](/docs/mdx/markdown-syntax).

### Frontmatter

> [Frontmatter](/docs/adding-markdown-pages/#frontmatter-for-metadata-in-markdown-files) is a set of key value pairs that are injected into when building Markdown and MDX files. While authoring new docs and blog posts, it may be helpful to understand what frontmatter is available to you and how Gatsby expects it to be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Frontmatter](/docs/adding-markdown-pages/#frontmatter-for-metadata-in-markdown-files) is a set of key-value pairs in your Markdown and MDX files that defines the metadata for a page. While authoring new docs and blog posts for the Gatsby site, it may be helpful to understand what frontmatter is available to you.
```

#### General

- `title` (string)

  The title of the doc or blog post. Gatsby renders the value in `og:title`, `<title>` and `<h1>`.

- `excerpt` (string)

  The excerpt for the post. Gatsby renders the value in `description`, `og:description`, and `twitter:description`.

#### Blog Posts

- `date` (string)

>   The blog post's date. GraphQL converts the string to a Date object and renders it with the format `MMMM Do YYYY`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The blog post's date. GraphQL converts the string to a Date object and renders it with the format `MMMM DD YYYY`.
```
I think it makes more sense to give the expected date format rather than the way it renders. I believe it's `YYYY-MM-DD`.

- `canonicalLink` (string)

>   The canonical link. Gatsby renders the value in `<link rel="canonical">`.

Reviewer: Perhaps we can link to an explanation of what this is for those that don't know. Maybe this one? https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/139066?hl=en

- `tags` (array)

  The blog post's related tags. Gatsby renders the [YAML array/list](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML#Basic_components) as links to tag archives and creates the archive if it doesn't exist.

- `image` (string)

  The relative path to the image.

  - Facebook and `twitterCard: summary` support an aspect ratio of 1:1.
  - LinkedIn supports an aspect ratio of 1.91:1 and `twitterCard: summary_large_image` supports an aspect ratio of 2:1
  - Gatsby resizes the image to 1500x1500 and renders the URL in the `og:image` and `twitter:image` metadata.

>   - If `showImageInArticle` is true, Gatsby renders an image with the width of 786px in the hero of the blog post.

Reviewer: This is mentioned below explicitly. Not sure we need both.

- `imageAuthor` (string)

  The name of the image's author. Gatsby renders the value in an `<a>` tag only if `imageAuthorLink` is defined.

- `imageAuthorLink` (string)

  The link to the image's author. Gatsby renders the value in an `<a>` tag only if `imageAuthor` is defined.

- `showImageInArticle` (boolean, default false)

  Determines if the `image` is displayed as a hero in the blog post.

- `twitterCard` (string)

  A choice between: `summary` or `summary_large_image` that Gatsby renders in the `twitter:card` metadata.

>   - `summary` - The Summary Card can be used for many kinds of web content, from blog posts and news articles, to products and restaurants. It is designed to give the reader a preview of the content before clicking through to your website.

Reviewer: It looks like these explanations are pulled from [twitter's site](https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/tweets/optimize-with-cards/overview/summary). We should link there, summarize, or attribute the text.
